feat(docs): Create unlisted docs for React Server Components (#32066)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/server-components.mdx

Layout routes (**app/_layout.tsx**) can wrap all routes in a common layout.

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { View } from 'react-native';
import { Slot } from 'expo-router';

export default function Layout() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Slot />
    </View>
  );
}
```

The `Slot` component is used to render the current route.

## Server Components

Server Components run in the server, meaning they can access Node.js built-ins and server APIs. They can also use async components.

Consider the following component which fetches data and renders it:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Image, Text, View } from 'react-native';

export async function Pokemon() {
  const res = await fetch('https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/2');
  const json = await res.json();
  
  return (
    <View style={{ padding: 8, borderWidth: 1 }}>
      <Text style={{ fontWeight: 'bold', fontSize: 24 }}>{json.name}</Text>
      <Image source={{ uri: json.sprites.front_default }} style={{ width: 100, height: 100 }} />

      {json.abilities.map(ability => (
        <Text key={ability.ability.name}>- {ability.ability.name}</Text>
      ))}
    </View>
  );
}
```

> - You cannot use hooks like `useState`, `useEffect`, or `useContext` in Server Components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Key points

- You cannot use hooks like `useState`, `useEffect`, or `useContext` in Server Components.
```

Let's add a sub-section so that people don't skim over this.

- You cannot use browser or native APIs in Server Components.
- `"use server"` is not meant to mark a file as a server component. It's used to mark a file as having React Server Actions.
- Server components have access to all environment variables as they run securely off the client.

## Client Components

Since Server Components cannot access native APIs or React Context, you can create a Client Component to use these features. Client Components are created by marking files with the `"use client"` directive at the top.

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => {}}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

This file can be imported and used in a Server Component:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import Button from '../components/button';

export default function Index() {
  return <Button title="Press me" />;
}
```

> You cannot pass functions as props to Server Components. You can only pass serializable data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Key point

You cannot pass functions as props to Server Components. You can only pass serializable data.
```

## Server Actions

> Server Actions are gated behind an additional experimental flag. Pass the environment variable `EXPO_UNSTABLE_SERVER_ACTIONS=1` to enable them.

Server Actions are functions that run on the server and can be called from client components. Think of them like fully-typed API routes that are easier to write.

> Server Actions must always be an async function and are marked with `"use server"` at the top of the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They must always be an async function and are marked with `"use server"` at the top of the function.
```

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <Button
      title="Press me"
      onPress={async () => {
        'use server';
        // This code runs on the server.
        console.log('Button pressed');
        return '...';
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

> You can create a client component to invoke the server action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a Client Component to invoke the Server Action:
```

Let's use consistent casing for these words.

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title, onPress }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => onPress()}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

Server Actions can also be defined in a standalone file (with `"use server"` at the top) and imported from client components:

```tsx components/server-actions.tsx
'use server';

export async function callAction() {
  // ...
}
```

> These can be used in client components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These can be used in a Client Component:
```

```tsx components/button.tsx
import { Text } from 'react-native';
import { callAction } from './server-actions';

export default function Button({ title }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => callAction()}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

> - You can only pass serializable data to server actions as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Key points

- You can only pass serializable data to Server Actions as arguments.
```

- Server actions can only return serializable data.

> - Server actions run on the server and therefore are a good place to put logic that should not be exposed to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Server Actions run on the server and are a good place to put logic that should not be exposed to the client.
```

## CSS

> Expo Router supports importing global CSS and CSS modules in server components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo Router supports importing global CSS and CSS modules in Server Components.
```

Consistent casing.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import './styles.css';
import styles from './styles.module.css';

export default function Index() {
  return <div className={styles.container}>Hello, world!</div>;
}
```

The CSS will be hoisted into the client bundle from the server.

## Metadata

> React Server Components are a feature of React 19. To enable them, Expo CLI automatically uses a special canary build of React on all platforms. We'll remove this feature in the future when React 19 is enabled by default in React Native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Server Components are a feature of React 19. To enable them, Expo CLI automatically uses a special canary build of React on all platforms. In the future, it will be removed when React 19 is enabled by default in React Native.
```

As a result, you can use React 19 features such as placing `<meta>` tags anywhere in your app (web-only).

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <>
      {process.env.EXPO_OS === 'web' && (
        <>
          <meta name="description" content="Hello, world!" />
          <meta property="og:image" content="/og-image.png" />
        </>
      )}
      <MyComponent />
    </>
  );
}
```

> Use this in favor of the `Head` component from `expo-router/head`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this instead of the `Head` component from `expo-router/head`.
```

## Suspense

You can stream back partial UI from the server while waiting for data to load by using React Suspense.

In the following example, a `Loading...` text is returned instantly on the client, and when the `<MediumTask>` finishes rendering one second later, it will replace the text with `Medium task done!`. The `<ExpensiveTask>` will take three seconds to load, and when it finishes, it will replace the text with `Expensive task done!`.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Suspense } from 'react';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
      <>
        <MediumTask />
        <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
          <ExpensiveTask />
        </Suspense>
      </>
    </Suspense>
  );
}

async function MediumTask() {
  // Wait one second before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 1000));
  return <Text>Medium task done!</Text>;
}

async function ExpensiveTask() {
  // Wait three seconds before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 3000));
  return <Text>Expensive task done!</Text>;
}
```

> If you remove the `Suspense` wrapper around `<ExpensiveTask>`, you'll see that the `Loading...` waits for both components to finish rendering before updating the UI. This enables you to control how incremental you want your loading to be. Sometimes, it makes sense to wait for everything to load at once (most of the time), and sometimes, it makes sense to stream back UI as soon as you have (like the text response in ChatGPT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you remove the `Suspense` wrapper around `<ExpensiveTask>`, you'll see that the `Loading...` waits for both components to finish rendering before updating the UI. This enables you to control the loading state incrementally. Sometimes, it makes sense to wait for everything to load at once (most of the time), while other times, it is beneficial to stream back UI as soon as you have (like the text response in ChatGPT).
```

## Build-time rendering

> Expo Router supports two different modes of rendering server components: build-time rendering and request-time rendering. These modes can be indicated on a per-route basis by using the `unstable_settings` export:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo Router supports two different modes of rendering Server Components: build-time rendering and request-time rendering. These modes can be indicated on a per-route basis by using the `unstable_settings` export:
```

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Text, View } from 'react-native';

export const unstable_settings = {
  // This component will be rendered at build-time and never re-rendered in production.
  render: 'static',
};

export default function Index() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </View>
  );
}
```

- `render: 'static'` will render the component at build-time and never re-render it in production. This is similar to how classic static site generators work.
- `render: 'dynamic'` will render the component at request-time and re-render it on every request. This is similar to how server-side rendering works.

> If you want client-side rendering, simply move your data detching to a client component and control the rendering locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want client-side rendering, move your data fetching to a Client Component and control the rendering locally.
```

Routes marked with `static` output will be rendered at build-time and embeded in the native binary. This enables rendering routes without making a server request (because the server request was made when the app was downloaded).

> The current default is `dynamic` rendering, we'll change the caching and optimizations to be smarter and more automatic in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current default is `dynamic` rendering. In the future, we'll change the caching and optimizations to be smarter and more automatic.
```

## Secrets

> Server components can access secrets and server-side APIs. You can use the `process.env` object to access environment variables. You can ensure a module never runs on the client by importing the `server-only` module in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server Components can access secrets and server-side APIs. You can use the `process.env` object to access environment variables. You can ensure a module never runs on the client by importing the `server-only` module in your project.
```

```tsx app/index.tsx
// This will assert if the module runs on the client.
import 'server-only';

import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default async function Index() {
  // This code only runs on the server.
  const data = await fetch('https://my-endpoint/', {
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.SECRET}`,
    },
  });

  // ...
  return <div />;
}
```

You can define the secret in your **.env** file:

```text .env
SECRET=123
```

## Platform detection

To detect which platform your code is bundled for, use the `process.env.EXPO_OS` environment variable. For example, `process.env.EXPO_OS === 'ios'`. Prefer this to `Platform.OS` as `react-native` is not fully optimized for React Server Components yet and won't work as expected.

You can detect if code is running in the server by performing a `typeof window === 'undefined'` check. This will always return `true` on client devices and `false` on the server.

## Testing with jest

> Library authors can test their modules support server components by using `jest-expo`. Learn more in the [testing react server components guide](/guides/testing-rsc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Library authors can test their modules support Server Components by using `jest-expo`. Learn more in the [testing react server components guide](/guides/testing-rsc).
```

## Known limitations

> This is a very early technical preview that we're actively developing.

> - There is currently no stack routing. The custom layouts `Stack`, `Tabs`, `Drawer` do not support server components yet.
> - Expo Go does not support the new architecture yet, meaning you cannot use server components in Expo Go.
> - Expo Snack does not support bundling server components.
> - EAS Update does not work with server components yet.
> - DOM components cannot use server components yet.
> - Production deployment is very limited and not recommended yet.
> - Server Rendering RSC payloads to HTML is not supported yet.
> - `generateStaticParams` is not yet supported.
> - HTML `form` integration with Server Actions is not supported yet (this partially works automatically, but data is not encrypted).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There is currently no stack routing. The custom layouts, `Stack`, `Tabs`, and `Drawer`, do not support Server Components yet.
- Expo Go does not support the new architecture yet, meaning you cannot use Server Components in Expo Go.
- Expo Snack does not support bundling Server Components.
- EAS Update does not work with Server Components yet.
- DOM components cannot use Server Components yet.
- Production deployment is very limited and not recommended yet.
- Server Rendering RSC payloads to HTML is not supported yet.
- `generateStaticParams` is not yet supported.
- HTML `form` integration with Server Actions is not supported yet (this partially works automatically, but data is not encrypted).
```

## Deployment

> Avoid using this feature in production as it's not stable yet. We'll streamline all of this to a single command in the future.

### Web

To deploy your website to production, run: `npx expo export -p web`.

You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](/router/reference/api-routes/#express).

### Native

> Unlike standard native builds, React Server Components requires an additional server to be generated and hosted. This server is responsible for rendering the server components and serving the data to the native app. We'll generate this server code during the native build to optimize and link static assets to the binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike standard native builds, React Server Components requires an additional server to be generated and hosted. This server is responsible for rendering the Server Components and serving the data to the native app. We'll generate this server code during the native build to optimize and link static assets to the binary.
```

Set the `origin` in your app config to the URL of your server:

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-router",
        {
          // Setting this to a local server URL.
          "origin": "http://localhost:3000"
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

To deploy your native app to production, you'll need to build it for production with `npx expo run:android --variant release` or `npx expo run:ios --configuration Release`. This will generate the required server code to `./.expo/server/<platform>` along with building and embedding any assets that could potentially be local-first into the binary.

> You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](/router/reference/api-routes/#express), substituting the **dist** directory for the `.expo/server/<platform>` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](/router/reference/api-routes/#express), substituting the **dist** directory for the `.expo/server/<platform>` directory.
```

I think this information should be inside the "web" section just above this native section. It doesn't make sense to repeat it here and also reading this version makes me think the version on line 369 is incomplete?

---
title: Using React Server Components in Expo Router apps
sidebar_title: React Server Components
description: Learn about rendering React components on the server in Expo.
---

> import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove the unused statement.

> Experimentally available in **SDK 52 and above**. This is a very early preview and not ready for production or wide use yet. This initial version is meant to help library authors understand universal React Server Components and add support in their libraries.

> Expo Router enables support for [React Server Components](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/server-components) on all platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's add this after the next block of text so that the flow is maintained. Right now it seems like there are two different ways the introduction is going to.

> React Server Components enable a number of exciting capabilities including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Server Components enable a number of exciting capabilities, including:
```

- Data fetching with async components and React Suspense.
- Working with secrets and server-side APIs.
- Server-side rendering (SSR) for SEO and performance.
- Build-time rendering to remove unused JS code.

> This is an early preview of a feature that will be enabled by default in Expo Router.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo Router enables support for [React Server Components](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/server-components) on all platforms. This is an early preview of a feature that will be enabled by default in Expo Router.
```

## Usage

> Your project must be using Expo Router and React Native new architecture. New Architecture is not supported in Expo Go so you'll need to create a development build or use the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your project must use Expo Router and React Native new architecture. New Architecture is not supported in Expo Go, so you'll need to [create a development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) or use the web.
```

> As of SDK 52, there's no strategy to migrate existing projects, we recommend starting from a new project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of SDK 52, there is no strategy for migrating existing projects. We recommend starting with a new project.
```

> Enable the flag in the project Expo config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the flag in the project app config:
```

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "experiments": {
      "reactServerComponents": true
    }
  }
}
```

> Ensure the entry module is `expo-router/entry` (default).
> 
> Create an initial route `app/index.tsx`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the entry module is `expo-router/entry` (default) in **package.json**. Then, create an initial route **app/index.tsx**:
```

Let's add context about where to find the module entry.

```tsx app/index.tsx
// This is a server component.
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Index() {
  return <Text>Hello, world!</Text>;
}
```

> ## Moving between routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Navigating between routes
```

Let's update this section heading to use the context of "navigation".

You can navigate between routes by using the `<Link />` API from Expo Router (not all props are supported yet).

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Index() {
  return (
    <Link href="/second">
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </Link>
  );
}
```

## Layout Routes

> > Complex built-in layouts such as Stack, and Tabs are not supported yet. They'll fallback to a `<Slot />`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Complex built-in layouts such as Stack and Tabs are not yet supported. They will fallback to a `<Slot />`.
```

> Layout routes (`app/_layout.js`) can be used to wrap all routes in a common layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Layout routes (**app/_layout.tsx**) can wrap all routes in a common layout.
```

Since all examples use `tsx` as file extensions, let's stick to that here as well.

```tsx app/_layout.tsx
import { View } from 'react-native';
import { Slot } from 'expo-router';

export default function Layout() {
  return (
    <View>
      <Slot />
    </View>
  );
}
```

The `Slot` component is used to render the current route.

## Server Components

Server Components run in the server, meaning they can access Node.js built-ins and server APIs. They can also use async components.

Consider the following component which fetches data and renders it:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Image, Text, View } from 'react-native';

export async function Pokemon() {
  const res = await fetch('https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/2');

>   const json = await res.json();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const json = await res.json();
  
```

Let's add a newline before return for consistency with other code examples.

  return (
    <View style={{ padding: 8, borderWidth: 1 }}>
      <Text style={{ fontWeight: 'bold', fontSize: 24 }}>{json.name}</Text>
      <Image source={{ uri: json.sprites.front_default }} style={{ width: 100, height: 100 }} />

      {json.abilities.map(ability => (
        <Text key={ability.ability.name}>- {ability.ability.name}</Text>
      ))}
    </View>
  );
}
```

- You cannot use hooks like `useState`, `useEffect`, or `useContext` in Server Components.
- You cannot use browser or native APIs in Server Components.
- `"use server"` is not meant to mark a file as a server component. It's used to mark a file as having React Server Actions.
- Server components have access to all environment variables as they run securely off the client.

## Client Components

> Server Components run in the server and have no access to native APIs or React Context. To use these features, you can create a Client Component. Client Components are created by marking files with the `"use client"` directive at the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Server Components cannot access native APIs or React Context, you can create a Client Component to use these features. Client Components are created by marking files with the `"use client"` directive at the top.
```

We've already explained where Server Components run in the previous section, so let's not repeat that here.

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => {}}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

This file can be imported and used in a Server Component:

```tsx app/index.tsx
import Button from '../components/button';

export default function Index() {
  return <Button title="Press me" />;
}
```

> - You cannot pass functions as props to Server Components. You can only pass serializable data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot pass functions as props to Server Components. You can only pass serializable data.
```

There is no list here, so let's remove the bullet.

## Server Actions

> Server Actions are gated behind an additional experimental flag. Pass the environment variable `EXPO_UNSTABLE_SERVER_ACTIONS=1` to enable them.

Server Actions are functions that run on the server and can be called from client components. Think of them like fully-typed API routes that are easier to write.

Server Actions must always be an async function and are marked with `"use server"` at the top of the function.

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <Button
      title="Press me"
      onPress={async () => {
        'use server';
        // This code runs on the server.
        console.log('Button pressed');
        return '...';
      }}
    />
  );
}
```

> We can create a client component to invoke our server action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a client component to invoke the server action:
```

```tsx components/button.tsx
'use client';
import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default function Button({ title, onPress }) {
  return <Text onPress={() => onPress()}>{title}</Text>;
}
```

> Server Actions can also be defined in a standalone file (with "use server" at the top) and imported from client components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server Actions can also be defined in a standalone file (with `"use server"` at the top) and imported from client components:
```

Expo Router supports importing global CSS and CSS modules in server components.

```tsx app/index.tsx
import './styles.css';
import styles from './styles.module.css';

export default function Index() {
  return <div className={styles.container}>Hello, world!</div>;
}
```

The CSS will be hoisted into the client bundle from the server.

## Metadata

React Server Components are a feature of React 19. To enable them, Expo CLI automatically uses a special canary build of React on all platforms. We'll remove this feature in the future when React 19 is enabled by default in React Native.

As a result, you can use React 19 features such as placing `<meta>` tags anywhere in your app (web-only).

```tsx app/index.tsx
export default function Index() {
  return (
    <>
      {process.env.EXPO_OS === 'web' && (
        <>
          <meta name="description" content="Hello, world!" />
          <meta property="og:image" content="/og-image.png" />
        </>
      )}
      <MyComponent />
    </>
  );
}
```

Use this in favor of the `Head` component from `expo-router/head`.

## Suspense

You can stream back partial UI from the server while waiting for data to load by using React Suspense.

> In the following example, we'll instantly return a `Loading...` text on the client, and when the `<MediumTask>` finishes rendering one second later, it will replace the text with `Medium task done!`. The `<ExpensiveTask>` will take three seconds to load, and when it finishes, it will replace the text with `Expensive task done!`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, a `Loading...` text is returned instantly on the client, and when the `<MediumTask>` finishes rendering one second later, it will replace the text with `Medium task done!`. The `<ExpensiveTask>` will take three seconds to load, and when it finishes, it will replace the text with `Expensive task done!`.
```

```tsx app/index.tsx
import { Suspense } from 'react';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
      <>
        <MediumTask />
        <Suspense fallback={<Text>Loading...</Text>}>
          <ExpensiveTask />
        </Suspense>
      </>
    </Suspense>
  );
}

async function MediumTask() {
  // Wait one second before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 1000));
  return <Text>Medium task done!</Text>;
}

async function ExpensiveTask() {
  // Wait three seconds before resolving.
  await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 3000));
  return <Text>Expensive task done!</Text>;
}
```

> If you remove the `Suspense` wrapper around `<ExpensiveTask>`, you'll see that the `Loading...` waits for both components to finish rendering before updating the UI. This enables you to control how incremental you want your loading to be. Sometimes it makes sense to wait for everything to load at once (most of the time), and sometimes it makes sense to stream back UI as soon as you have (like the text response in ChatGPT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you remove the `Suspense` wrapper around `<ExpensiveTask>`, you'll see that the `Loading...` waits for both components to finish rendering before updating the UI. This enables you to control how incremental you want your loading to be. Sometimes, it makes sense to wait for everything to load at once (most of the time), and sometimes, it makes sense to stream back UI as soon as you have (like the text response in ChatGPT).
```

## Build-time rendering

> Expo Router supports two different modes of rendering server components: build-time rendering and request-time rendering.
> 
> These modes can be indicated on a per-route basis by using the `unstable_settings` export:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo Router supports two different modes of rendering server components: build-time rendering and request-time rendering. These modes can be indicated on a per-route basis by using the `unstable_settings` export:
```

> ```js app/index.tsx

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```tsx app/index.tsx
````

If you want client-side rendering, simply move your data detching to a client component and control the rendering locally.

Routes marked with `static` output will be rendered at build-time and embeded in the native binary. This enables rendering routes without making a server request (because the server request was made when the app was downloaded).

The current default is `dynamic` rendering, we'll change the caching and optimizations to be smarter and more automatic in the future.

## Secrets

Server components can access secrets and server-side APIs. You can use the `process.env` object to access environment variables. You can ensure a module never runs on the client by importing the `server-only` module in your project.

```tsx app/index.tsx
// This will assert if the module runs on the client.
import 'server-only';

import { Text } from 'react-native';

export default async function Index() {
  // This code only runs on the server.
  const data = await fetch('https://my-endpoint/', {
    headers: {
      Authorization: `Bearer ${process.env.SECRET}`,
    },
  });

  // ...
  return <div />;
}
```

> You can define the secret in your `.env` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define the secret in your **.env** file:
```

> ```env

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```text .env
````

SECRET=123
```

## Platform detection

> To detect which platform your code is bundled for, use the `process.env.EXPO_OS` envrionment variable. For example `process.env.EXPO_OS === 'ios'`. Prefer this to `Platform.OS` as `react-native` is not fully optimized for React Server Components yet and therefore won't work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To detect which platform your code is bundled for, use the `process.env.EXPO_OS` environment variable. For example, `process.env.EXPO_OS === 'ios'`. Prefer this to `Platform.OS` as `react-native` is not fully optimized for React Server Components yet and won't work as expected.
```

Library authors can test their modules support server components by using `jest-expo`. Learn more in the [testing react server components guide](/guides/testing-rsc).

## Known limitations

> This is a very early technical preview that we're actively developing.

- There is currently no stack routing. The custom layouts `Stack`, `Tabs`, `Drawer` do not support server components yet.
- Expo Go does not support the new architecture yet, meaning you cannot use server components in Expo Go.
- Expo Snack does not support bundling server components.
- EAS Update does not work with server components yet.
- DOM components cannot use server components yet.
- Production deployment is very limited and not recommended yet.
- Server Rendering RSC payloads to HTML is not supported yet.
- `generateStaticParams` is not yet supported.
- HTML `form` integration with Server Actions is not supported yet (this partially works automatically, but data is not encrypted).

## Deployment

> Avoid using this feature in production as it's not stable yet. We'll streamline all of this to a single command in the future.

### Web

To deploy your website to production, run: `npx expo export -p web`.

> You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](https://docs.expo.dev/router/reference/api-routes/#express).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](/router/reference/api-routes/#express).
```

### Native

> Unlike standard native builds, React Server Components requires an additional server to be generated and hosted. This server is responsible for rendering the server components and serving the data to the native app. We'll generate this server code during the native build in order to optimize and link static assets to the binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike standard native builds, React Server Components requires an additional server to be generated and hosted. This server is responsible for rendering the server components and serving the data to the native app. We'll generate this server code during the native build to optimize and link static assets to the binary.
```

> First, set the `origin` in your `app.json` to the URL of your server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `origin` in your app config to the URL of your server:
```

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "plugins": [
      [
        "expo-router",
        {
          // Setting this to a local server URL.
          "origin": "http://localhost:3000"
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

> To deploy your native app to production, you'll need to build it for production with `npx expo run:ios --configuration Release` or `npx expo run:android --variant release`. This will generate the required server code to `./.expo/server/<platform>` along with building and embedding any assets which could potentially be local-first into the binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy your native app to production, you'll need to build it for production with `npx expo run:android --variant release` or `npx expo run:ios --configuration Release`. This will generate the required server code to `./.expo/server/<platform>` along with building and embedding any assets that could potentially be local-first into the binary.
```

> You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](https://docs.expo.dev/router/reference/api-routes/#express), substituting the `dist` directory for the `.expo/server/<platform>` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can host the website locally with the [express server adapter](/router/reference/api-routes/#express), substituting the **dist** directory for the `.expo/server/<platform>` directory.
```

description: Learn about rendering React components on the server in Expo.
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Deleting this empty line will resolve the lint error below.

> Experimentally available in **SDK 52 and above**. This is a very early preview and not ready for production or wide use yet. This initial version is meant to help library authors understand universal React Server Components and add support in their libraries.

React Server Components enable a number of exciting capabilities, including:

- Data fetching with async components and React Suspense.
- Working with secrets and server-side APIs.
- Server-side rendering (SSR) for SEO and performance.
- Build-time rendering to remove unused JS code.

Expo Router enables support for [React Server Components](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/server-components) on all platforms. This is an early preview of a feature that will be enabled by default in Expo Router.

> ## Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites

Your project must use Expo Router and React Native new architecture. New Architecture is not supported in Expo Go, so you'll need to [create a development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) or create a web app.

As of SDK 52, there is no strategy for migrating existing projects. We recommend starting with a new project.

## Usage
```

Let's add a prerequisite section here to highlight the requirements of using server components.
Using the web doesn't provide much information as to what it means. I think you meant here to be a web app.

> Your project must use Expo Router and React Native new architecture. New Architecture is not supported in Expo Go, so you'll need to [create a development build](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) or use the web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this because of the prerequisites section.

> As of SDK 52, there is no strategy for migrating existing projects. We recommend starting with a new project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this because of the prerequisites section.

> Enable the flag in the project app config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use React Server Components in your Expo app, you need to:

1. Ensure the entry module is `expo-router/entry` (default) in **package.json**.
2. Enable the flag in the project app config:
```

Let's add the context of what the user will achieve after following the steps from this section. Also, let's make these steps numbered.

}
```

> Ensure the entry module is `expo-router/entry` (default) in **package.json**. Then, create an initial route **app/index.tsx**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create an initial route **app/index.tsx**:
```

We can remove the context of entry module since that is now covered in the step 1.

## Layout Routes

> Complex built-in layouts such as Stack and Tabs are not yet supported. They will fallback to a `<Slot />`.

> Layout routes (**app/_layout.tsx**) can wrap all routes in a common layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Layout routes (**app/\_layout.tsx**) can wrap all routes in a common layout.
```

My bad, the linter below is right. This is the correct markdown formatting for using underscore in before a file name here.

export async function Pokemon() {
  const res = await fetch('https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/2');
  const json = await res.json();

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

My bad again, I added an extra space here.
